README.md, before:

# Digital Methods Accelerator (draft)

I used the DHCC toolkit (special thank-you to Marty!) to get this one started. Access the toolkit on GitHub Pages at
`https://<owner>.github.io/digital-methods-accelerator/` (replace `<owner>` with the GitHub org or user that owns this repo - probably the Sussex Humanities Lab).

*Editing content*

Edit the markdown files in the `./content` folder. Commit your changes to the repository, then visit the [Publish to Github pages action](https://github.com/franciscrot/digital-methods-accelerator/actions/workflows/main.yml) and manually run the workflow to publish changes.

*Software requirements*

Copied over from Marty's original notes. This site uses the [Hugo CMS](https://gohugo.io), the [hugo-book](https://themes.gohugo.io/themes/hugo-book/) theme, and github actions to build and publish the site on GitHub pages.

The hugo site configuration is in the [`config.yaml`](https://github.com/franciscrot/digital-methods-accelerator/blob/main/config.yaml) file. This contains theme specific parameters and some general hugo configuration settings.

The repository is configed to serve the site from the `gh-pages` branch of the repository. The actions are configured in the `.github/workflows/main.yml` file to build and commit HTML output to that branch. The main action must be triggered manually. 

The GitHub action depends on three external actions from the GitHub marketplace: [the GitHub Checkout action](https://github.com/actions/checkout) to checkout the repo into the action's temporary container, [peaceiris' Hugo actions](https://github.com/peaceiris/actions-hugo) to install Hugo and build the site inside the container, and [Peaceiris' GitHub Pages actions](https://github.com/peaceiris/actions-gh-pages) to put the built HTML content into the gh-pages branch of the repository where it can be hosted publically online.

The [Digital Humanities Climate Coalition](https://www.cdcs.ed.ac.uk/digital-humanities-climate-coalition) is a collaborative and cross-institutional initiative focused on understanding and minimising the environmental impact of DH research. Participants are based at HE institutions and DH Centres across the UK, Ireland, and Northern Europe.

Commit message:

Switch site build to Jekyll

README.md, after:

# Digital Methods Accelerator (draft)

This repository hosts the Digital Methods Accelerator toolkit. Access the toolkit on GitHub Pages at
`https://<owner>.github.io/digital-methods-accelerator/` (replace `<owner>` with the GitHub org or user that owns this repo - probably the Sussex Humanities Lab).

## Editing content

Edit the markdown files in the `./content` folder. The build pipeline automatically renders them to HTML.

## Local development

This project uses [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/) to generate a static site.

1. Install dependencies (requires Ruby):
   ```bash
   bundle install
   ```
2. Build the site:
   ```bash
   bundle exec jekyll build
   ```
3. Run a local server:
   ```bash
   bundle exec jekyll serve
   ```

The output is generated in the `_site` directory.

## Deployment

GitHub Actions builds and deploys the site to GitHub Pages on every push to `main` (and can be triggered manually). The workflow is defined in `.github/workflows/deploy.yml`.

The [Digital Humanities Climate Coalition](https://www.cdcs.ed.ac.uk/digital-humanities-climate-coalition) is a collaborative and cross-institutional initiative focused on understanding and minimising the environmental impact of DH research. Participants are based at HE institutions and DH Centres across the UK, Ireland, and Northern Europe.
